If you had one word to describe the
current housing market, what would you
choose?
>> Depressed. And the reason for that,
which we've read lots of headlines
about, is affordability. High home
prices, elevated mortgage rates, lack of
supply. A lot fewer people than normal
are moving in a given year.
This week on Bold Names, we're talking
to Jeremy Waxman. He's the CEO of
Zillow. The real estate site has its
finger on the pulse of the national real
estate market. And as Jeremy just
mentioned, there have been better days.
So, what should we expect this year?
That's next. Jeremy, thanks for joining
Bold Names. I want to take this
opportunity to take a temperature of the
nation's real estate market. Your data
on Zillow.com, those buyers and sellers
out there, gives you such a window into
the state of the housing industry. What
are your economists telling you about
the housing market in 2026?
>> Well, thanks for having me. I'm happy to
be here. Uh, our economists are saying
that there'll be a little bit of
improvement in 2026 versus last year,
but we're still in a really challenged
housing market.
>> When I talk to pollsters out there, they
say affordability is one of the biggest
issues that they hear from voters. We
see it on all sorts of topics from
health care, uh, and more importantly
probably housing. And I think, you know,
Zillow is in an interesting spot in
this, right? You get what, 250 million
unique visitors to your website and app
every month. A lot of people out there
window shopping, dreaming, and I think
they see those houses, those big prices,
and it confirms really that they can't
kind of grasp that American dream of
home ownership. Um, as you think about
the affordability issues, what what's
driving it? Why do we have this problem?
>> You're right. We do have most of America
on Zillow. Real estate's a hobby for
many, right? The average person buys and
sells a home less than once a decade,
but a hundred, you know, hundreds of
millions of folks are on Zillow and
they're shopping and they're dreaming
and they're escaping and it's a great
pastime because you never know when
you're going to find the right one. But
what the data tells us is the big root
cause of the affordability challenge is
really an availability challenge. It is
a lack of supply. Coming out of the
global financial crisis back in 2008
2009, we started building less homes
than household formation. And we've
accumulated this deficit of Zillow
estimates almost 5 million fewer homes
have been built to keep up. And so
anytime in a marketplace when you have
less supply than demand, it makes it
more unaffordable for that demand. You
pair you marry that with mortgage rates
that have elevated and it makes it even
more unaffordable.
>> So mortgage rates are higher means your
monthly payment is higher. You can
afford less and uh people out there
there aren't homes to buy. But people
need to sell their homes. What's what's
it like for them out there? Are they not
finding buyers?
>> So for a while our economists would say
it has been a sellers market just
because of that lack of supply. But
because of the affordability challenge,
it has really shifted. And the story
going into 2026 is really more of a
local one. But markets are starting to
turn. And what sellers are finding is
the prices they thought they could get
in many of these markets aren't what
they can get in today's markets. It's
easy to look in the rearview mirror at
what a home sold for and the market has
moved. But the markets where you're
seeing population growth and demand
strong, that's still where you're seeing
um a strong sellers market, especially
where you're seeing listings be down. So
markets with rising home prices, we just
put out sort of best markets to buy in.
And that's the flip side of that.
>> I mean, I think a seller right now, you
want to be in San Francisco. I've talked
to real estate agents who are seeing
bidding wars. I heard from a real estate
agent the other day who was talking
about a house being listed for 2
million, eventually sold for 4 million.
that if you're a buyer, you're sweating
it out. Where do you want to be if
you're a buyer? What are the where are
the good markets?
>> Yeah, the hot buyers markets are the
markets that are kind of satellite to
major cities, right? So, think Hartford,
Connecticut. Those are the markets where
home prices are still going up. But you
contrast that to places like the Sunb
Belt where they've built nicely over the
last five or six years. Take an Austin,
Texas. Take the Southeast. You are
seeing home prices come down. You're
seeing rents come down and so it is more
affordable for the buyer.
>> Yeah. Indianapolis, Atlanta, Charlotte
lead the 10 top uh markets where buyers
will see the friendliest conditions
according to the list you guys put out.
You know, it's it's interesting because
sta sales are stuck at a around a
30-year low. For those who do venture
out and buy, they're they're the data
would suggest they are getting some
discounts in some of those areas
according to a recent report by the Wall
Street Journal. So, it's a weird if you
can afford to buy, maybe you can get a
deal, but a lot of people can't afford
to buy. Well, and that's the thing about
the housing market. I mean, it it will
return to a growth industry over time,
and we talk about how off it is from
pre- pandemic, but there are still 4.1
4.2 million homes trading. You know,
that's millions of Americans moving in a
given year. And those are the folks that
have to move. There's a job change,
there's a life event,
>> family sickness. You're talking about
this regionality of the market, which I
think is one of the reasons why I go to
your site so often. I see it as kind of
a barometer of regional economies. There
are several communities I follow
throughout the US. I know very well. I
keep tabs on them. So, I'm always going
to this neighborhood and that
neighborhood on Zillow and seeing what's
the inventory is like, what the prices
are like. You know, I guess that's the
way I'm spending my free time. Do you
have any insight into how long people
are staying on your website? I mean, we
see folks uh using the site for months
and months before they pull the trigger
and then we actually see folks stick
around after. I think that's one of the
things that's counterintuitive is after
you buy, you kind of look through uh
your fingers to say, did I make the
right decision? And you kind of
[clears throat] obsess about every other
transaction on the street that happened
after you bought it. And so we see that
that shopping pattern as well. But as
you said at the beginning, the reality
is even if you're not in the
transaction, it's so fun to think about
what's out there, to understand more
about your neighborhood, to look at
where you might want to live someday,
even when you're not in a transaction
mindset.
>> So, I mean, this is the interesting
thing about your site, right? You have
what, 250 million users on average each
month coming in there. A ton of people.
It's so powerful. But one of the
perennial questions of course for you
and your predecessors has always been
how do you turn that strong brand into
profitability? Now we're talking days
before your fourth core earnings. So I
know you won't discuss those. You can't
discuss those. But analysts are
expecting that Zillow is going to finish
profitably. The first annual net profit
in more than a decade. Let's talk about
the first nine months of 2025. What
drove this turnaround?
>> Yeah, I mean I'll start at the top. The
strategy for Zillow is to turn more of
that audience you talked about into
transactions. We are incredibly
fortunate that we have the majority of
America is on our site, but only a small
share of those folks when they buy or
sell or rent, they use our transaction
services. They connect to the agents
that are advertising with us. They
connect with the property managers that
are on Zillow. They use our mortgage
services. And our revenue growth comes
from just helping a few more percentage
of them use our services or find the
professionals that they need from
Zillow. And that's working really well
over the last couple years both in
rental and for sale. And that's why
you're seeing Zillow put up double-digit
revenue growth against this housing
market we've talked about that's flat,
right? The market is not helping Zillow
grow. Zillow is growing its share of
transactions in a flat housing market.
And that's why you're seeing revenue
growth. That's why you're seeing margin
improvement and why you're seeing net
income.
>> It seems to me that rental listings are
something of a moat, right? It's not
like real estate listings where there's
the multiple listing services out there
where you get the houses that are for
sale in your community that you then put
onto the website. But you got to have to
sort of build that list. Uh for rentals,
the rental market is very different than
for sale market. As you said, there is
no national database or even local
databases of all rental listings. And
that was really the problem we set out
to solve when we got into rentals a
while ago. A renter has an even more
compressed time frame, right? The stress
is even higher because you have to
decide quickly, are you going to renew
your lease? Are you going to move? Many
renters are thinking, could they buy or
not? And so Zillow set out to just help
answer those questions. Well, to answer
both those questions, you have to have
rental listings and for sale listings
and affordability tools. And you have to
have as much of the inventory as
possible. And so we built a platform for
landlords and for property managers to
provide all their listings to Zillow and
slowly built what is now the largest
database of all listings. No one site
has them all, but Zillow's brand is now
trusted by renters to have the most
rental listings. And that's why we have
the largest audience in rentals and
because we largely solve the problem of
if you need to find a rental,
increasingly you're going to find it on
Zillow. Another part of the routine of
Zillow is uh mortgages, right? You
number of years ago you got into the
mortgage business. What are the benefits
of financing a home with Zillow compared
to a traditional lender?
>> Yeah. Many folks don't know that Zillow
originates mortgages and can offer you a
mortgage. The reason we got into that
business, the reason we do most things
is to solve a consumer need. Right. What
a buyer needs when they go and buy a
house is they need a great agent and
they need a loan and then they need
software and tools to help them complete
the transaction. And that's what we're
trying to build. We're trying to build
an integrated experience so that a buyer
can find the home they want on Zillow,
hire their professional, line up their
financing, converse and message with
their professionals all inside the
Zillow app all the way to close. And so
you can't really provide that integrated
one-stop shop if you aren't providing
the mortgage, right? They ideally want
to be able to transact with that
transparently online, digitally, modern.
And so that's what we're building is if
you use our services, we can offer you
something that's more seamless, that's
more efficient, and that's more in your
control. Housing super app. Is it what
it sounds like?
>> That's right.
>> That's the that's the term you like to
use, and everybody in tech likes to
think about creating some sort of super
app. I mean, you talk to to Uber as I
do, they want to have the the Uber app
everything that's about mobility and
getting deliveries and all sorts of
things.
>> That's right. And and you gave some
other category examples. We have this
expectation when we pick up our phone
and we open the app, you should be able
to do everything in the app and the app
should help you with any question and
get you all the way through the
transaction. As you pointed out, real
estate doesn't work that way yet. Yet,
>> right? Because it's complicated, right?
That's what you're working. I mean, it's
complicated. One of the big complicating
factors is the the role the real estate
agent plays, right? And I think we've
talked about some of your businesses
here, but the core part of Zillow's
business is lead generators for real
estate agents. This is the primary
revenue driver has traditionally been, I
think at one point it was something like
70%. It has come down now as you
expanded the pie. It's a weird time to
be in the real estate agent business,
right? It's an industry that's reeling
following that landmark legal sentiment
around real estate agent commissions.
>> Been a major shakeup in the real estate
world today.
>> The National Association of Realators
not only agreed to pay $418 million, but
also agreed to eliminate the 6% realer
commission.
>> Yeah, this is a landmark antirust
settlement in the housing market that'll
fundamentally change the way real estate
agents are compensated when you buy or
sell your home. What's your view on
where you can play in this new world?
>> Yeah, you're right. The first decade of
Zillow, it was really lead generation,
right? We would attract buyers and
sellers and an advertiser would pay um
to attract those customers and as soon
as we connected you, we were we were
hands off. We were done. And what we
learned after a decade was that was a
great initial business, but it didn't
actually solve the consumer problem of
helping through the transaction. And so
we actually shifted that business and
it's now a revenue share. It's a
partnership with those agents. So more
and more of our agent revenue is no
longer traditional upfront advertising.
It's actually performance-based, right?
We only make money if the agent we
connect you with ends up helping you
transact, right? And then we we share in
that revenue together. And aligning our
interest with those agents has really
helped us build this integrated, you
know, this housing super app. It makes
sure we find the best agents, that they
are great service professionals, that
they are using the modern digital tools
you want, that they're using showcase to
showcase your listing online, that they
they meet your needs, that's how they
win more business, and then that's how
we grow our business. And to your
question, it has been a a tumultuous few
years in the real estate industry in
terms of all the changes. But the thing
that has not changed is the consumer's
demand for better and better service.
And you're adding more services uh for
real estate agents as I understand it.
In the first half of this year, Zillow
Pro is coming out. What is Zillow Pro?
>> That's right. So, the other thing folks
probably don't know about Zillow is how
much software we provide to the agents,
the loan officers, the property managers
that you all work with. Um, so we're all
using Zillow as consumers. Oftentimes,
the agent who's conversing with you is
using our software. They're using a CRM,
a customer relationship management
system called Follow-up Boss. So, when
they're messaging you, when they're
sending you follow-ups, when they're
helping you triage homes, they're using
our software. And we do that because
we're helping them run their business
more efficiently, right? So, the
software and tools we provide them helps
them run their business better. And then
that's how we help participate in more
transactions.
>> So, it helps them understand who's
looking at houses, helps them with
automatic follow-ups.
>> That's right. just a better job of
paying attention to those details, which
I think is what is somewhat scary about
the near-term future for a lot of people
with the kind of democratization of AI
is will AI be doing more and more of
this? Um, and so really, you're a
company that was an early adopter of
this kind of technology and so you must
have a thought on where the next
generation of AI is going.
>> We do. You're right. I mean, I joined
Zillow in 2009. The Zestimate is what
turned me on to Zillow back before I
joined.
>> And
>> did you look at your house beforehand?
>> Oh, for sure. Uh,
>> did they ask about it in the job
interview?
>> They did not. No. Um, but that was 2006
AirI, right? That was machine learning.
And we've been working on AI and real
estate really for 20 years. And it has
been really fun to work with a team of
innovators and technologists that are
leaning into any of the new waves of
technology. We did that with mobile when
I got here. Right. Steve Jobs held up
the iPhone and we were a desktop only
search engine and we pivoted the whole
company and ran it mobile because we saw
it as the future. And to your point,
generative AI is going to rewire how we
all do our jobs. To the question on real
estate though, I do think real estate is
a pretty unique category as you pointed
out earlier. It's so complex. It's so
local. It requires so many parties. It's
so regulated. AI actually has tremendous
promise to just take away the back
office work and the waste work so that
yes, we as buyers and sellers can have
the remote control in our hand do more
for us but more importantly when we hire
the professionals to help us get it done
they can do the same thing. And I'll
give you a very simple example. One of
the most widely used AI features we've
piloted in the last year by our agents
is something called smart messages.
Right? Agents are taking tons of calls.
They have tons of follow-ups. It's like
an endless to-do list. And can we short
circuit a little bit for them by
listening to what happened and
suggesting a follow-up message? Of
course, they can still customize it.
Ideally, we can learn their voice. We
are seeing millions and millions of
these smart messages be sent. And they
are driving improved outcomes, right?
They help the agent sound smarter. They
help the agent respond faster. And so
it's a very simple thing, but it shows
the power of like taking away one of
those cognitive load tasks or one of
those friction points that a small
business professional, an entrepreneur
doesn't want to do. They want to do the
thing they do well. And so we see the
power of AI as really helping pull out a
lot of the waste and a lot of the
inefficiency and redundancy in the
system, which will make it easier, yes,
for the buyer and seller, but also for
the agent you're going to hire.
Zillow's role in this kind of the new
real estate economy kind of real estate
2.0 if you will uh is under question
right is under attack. There's uh
several legal challenges kind of over
the power of its uh its app and its
website in the marketplace. One of them
is brought by real estate powerhouse
Compass and they are kind of getting at
this issue of clear cooperation.
um the idea that listings in a market
are available to everyone and that's
where you all get your listings and
Compass wants to have that be excl they
want the ability to be exclusive right
as their agents don't have to tell the
world you're against it this is a
lawsuit now I know you're not going to
get into the lawsuit but I'm just
curious more broadly
why is Zillow against agents having
exclusive listings
>> everything we do at Zillow is about what
is for the benefit of consumer and
putting the internet back in the box or
hiding listings so that you have to go
sign up to work with a specific company
to see and to get access is not great
for buyers or sellers. So that's why we
took a stand and said we're against it.
Right? Zillow will get the majority of
listings the way we always have. We got
them in a variety of ways over our 20
years because most sellers are going to
want their home to be broadly exposed on
the internet. But the reason we took a
stand for the industry, not just for
Zillow, to is to protect that
transparency that we talked about,
right? Before the internet, you had to
pay for access. That wasn't transparent.
That wasn't empowering for buyers and
sellers. It created all kinds of
friction for the consumer. And trying to
go back to that, trying to hide listings
and put them back in a box is not
proconsumer. So, that's the reason we
took a stand. Um, and it's the reason we
advocate for continuing to strengthen
transparency, which ultimately empowers
us as buyers and sellers and allows us
to hire the best professionals to meet
our needs.
>> If Compass was here, I think they would
argue that these uh exclusive listings
allows a home owner to test the market,
that sort of thing. But I think really
the bigger issue is the role that Zillow
plays in connecting buyers and sellers.
What do you what's your general response
to this idea that you guys have become
too powerful?
>> I mean, I think anything you have
anytime you have success in a category
and you become a brand that is
synonymous with a category, you attract
attention and you attract legal
challenges and scrutiny. The good thing
for Zillow is we're really able to just
focus on our business and focus on our
strategy. And we have found that if you
spend time with buyers and sellers and
understand what the problems they're
having are and you work backwards from
trying to solve those problems, however
the shifts of technology come, you build
a great business and you build a great
brand people trust.
>> So let's talk about how and what needs
to help the real estate market. Uh how
do we approve how do we improve the
affordability of things?
Yeah, the affordability challenges are
really availability challenges, right?
Supply is really the great solution.
There are things we can all do on the
margin to help on affordability. Any
relief in mortgage rates, um any
incentives to help first-time home
buyers, like all those things can help
the buyer, but what really has to happen
is we have to start to build more homes
in more places. We have to make it
easier for folks to build more homes to
help supply come online. That's piece
one. And then as rates come down, you
will see sellers finally decide to get
unstuck from their mortgage. Many
sellers feel trapped in their low
mortgage rate and they're delaying
selling because they don't want to
assume a higher mortgage rate. So as
that spread comes down, you see existing
home supply come online.
>> Let's talk a little bit about the supply
issue. uh in Washington uh there's legis
pieces of legislation that are working
their way through Congress which aim to
tackle some of these issues that you've
raised uh especially around deregulation
uh removing the so-called red tape that
slows the the ability to build more
houses. What do you think of that
legislation? What do you think of that?
Is that the right fix?
>> Anything that can help streamline and
make it easier to build is going to
help. the the challenge is it's really
going to have to be done at the state
and local and county level. So, right,
>> federal legislation ideally can help,
but it has to then be paired with state
and local legislation. And you kind of
see that playing out. Um there are
states where that have done a better job
over the last 10 years that have had
less regulatory red tape that have had
uh zoning and perming reform that have
provided tax incentives to get builders
going and they've built a lot and you've
seen the results. Yeah, I think a lot of
people are against uh red tape, if you
will, against the this the idea of these
regulations until it's their
neighborhood, until it's their backyard,
right? And that we see that uh time and
time again. One of the challenges is
that people are are fighting new housing
projects, uh lower income housing, they
just don't want it in their
neighborhood.
>> It's I mean, it's a tough issue when you
think about it locally, but it's an
important issue to solve and there are
ways to solve it. uh we authored a
playbook called Build the Middle that
talked about how to create uh the right
permitting and zoning reform to enable
that. You know, dense urban housing in
areas that are already dense and urban
helps the entire economy, right? And and
there are cities that are doing that
really really well. So, the reality is
we have to we have to make progress on
this if we want to get out of the out of
the imbalance that we have.
>> Yeah. It's it's part of a broader debate
going on in the country, I think, about
home ownership. I mean, do we need to
even think rethink home ownership? For
for so many people, it's so tied to the
idea of wealth and kind of future other
countries, it's not that case, right? Is
that some of the challenge is that for a
lot of people in the US, buying a house
is seen as an investment, uh, a gateway
to retirement security. Uh, maybe it'd
be a little bit better if it was turning
over every few years.
Our data would say that every generation
still has a dream of home ownership. Uh,
and we haven't seen that change. What
has changed, as you point out, with
affordability is people are having to
delay. And the idea of a starter home is
kind of gone. You're waiting and saving
up and scratching your way into your
first home. But we we still see across
all demographics, the desire to be a
homeowner is there. And you obviously
see that in the data on Zillow as well.
You see the demand and the desire to
think about how can I get it done? Our
job at Zillow is to just help those who
can, right? And then help try and make
it so that more can. And a huge part of
that is education. So, we talked a lot
about what can we do um regulatory, but
there's also helping educate first-time
home buyers on the tools that are
available to them. This idea that you
have to put 20% down is kind of an, you
know, an old adage that isn't true
anymore. the average first-time home
buyer is putting a few percentage points
down and there are tools and programs
that help them uh get into a mortgage
that they can start with and so
education for us becomes as important a
tool as all the software that we build.
>> Well, Jeremy, thanks so much for joining
us.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> [music]